>> Spencer Schneidenbach: And querying
with EF Core Basics, so up to this point,
we've created our DbContext, we've created
our DbSets, we've created our migrations,
we've seeded our database.
We've done everything we needed to
do except the thing to do where
the rubber meets the road,
which is connect our database to our API.
So first things first, let's go over
a few querying basics with LINQ.
So you'll recall that LINQ
methods on a given collection
can be chained together such
that you can very fluently
express operations to look
over that collection.
So in this case, right here,
we're filtering down, we're using Where.
In JavaScript, we would say filter.
We'd say Where e.Salary is greater
than 10,000, or sorry, 100,000.
Then we're ordering by the name
of those employees, and
then we're simply selecting or
map in JavaScript.
We're just taking the name
of those employees.
We don't need every property on there,
we just need the employee's name.
So we wrote a query here to
talk to this employee set.
We can do the same thing when we're
talking to our employees table in SQLite,
so let me show you what that looks like.
So I wanna first kind of bring
up this IRepository interface,
which is our reflection of the repository
pattern in our code, right?
It seems that it's useful,
pretty complete.
It seems like that we need to
be able to get them objects,
you need to be able to create,
update, delete.
But how does this actually look
as applications get more complex?
So consider that this repository
abstraction kind of breaks when you
wanna be able to do something like
get an object by a different ID.
So for employee, for
example, we can get them and
uniquely identify them probably
by their social security number.
So if we wanted to do that, so
we'd have to do something special, right?
It already breaks our iRepository
interface, so what would we have to do?
Well, one way that you could model that
is by creating an IEmployeeRepository
which implements
the IRepository interface.
And then defines its own
GetBySocialSecurityNumber method that you
could use to get that employee
by that social security number.
And then we could create an
EmployeeRepository which we already have.
Or we could switch our EmployeeRepository
to implement IEmployeeRepository instead,
but let's consider what
that looks like in code.
We now have at least three separate files,
two abstraction files, right,
two of our interfaces for representing
a single repository for employee.
The rabbit hole goes way deeper.
And there's a lot of problems with
this interface such that querying
it is rather difficult in a way, right?
This is actually a very
simplified IRepository.
You could instead do a GetAll where
you expose IQueryable, but now you're
introducing a layer of abstraction
in your repository between that and
your DbContext.
So let me just skip to Spencer's opinion
on this, and this is a spicy one.
DbContext by its very nature
is a combination of two
different software patterns.
It is the repository pattern because
we can get and put objects in there.
And it's also the unit of work pattern
because DbContext is smart enough to say,
if you wanna add two employees and
a benefit and then call save changes,
it will do that all in
one go as a unit of work.
Because it inherently supports database
transactions, which will prevent,
if there's an error from inserting or
updating an object, it will prevent all
of those data, those data mutations,
from being committed to the database,
which is a really, really,
really critical thing.
Database transactions are a really
important part of a developer's
day to day.
So it's my spicy, and I say it's spicy
because I think that the community is very
divided about this, about 50/50 based on
a poll on Twitter I did a few years ago.
That we should skip the IRepository
interface altogether and
use DbContext directly.
What ends up happening is typically, is
if they do use a repository pattern with
Entity Framework Core is that they've
introduced a lot of extra code and
a lot of layers of abstraction
on top of DbContext.
And repository ends just being
a wrapper around DbContext, but
not a particularly good one.
Because one thing that
abstractions do is that they leak,
and what that means is an abstraction
that can fail to meet all use cases,
is what's called a leaky abstraction.
So your abstraction might be good today,
but a couple of days from now,
a couple of weeks from now,
it may not be sufficient.
So there are reasons that we should
wrap DbContext up occasionally, right?
And I do that on a case-by-case basis.
Caching is a really good example of that.
If I need to cache this object in
some fast memory store like Redis,
then I can do that, but at that point,
I'm gonna introduce
an abstraction to do that for me.
I'm not gonna do that ahead of time,
whether or not I know to do that.
So we're just gonna skip IRepository, and
we're gonna rip it out completely, and
we're gonna use DbContext directly.
All right,
I'm gonna get off my soapbox now.
Now that we're off my soapbox,
we have a ton of refactoring to do, and
this is gonna take a little bit.
So I like to straight up remove old code
and interfaces that I don't need anymore,
and let the compiler tell
me where to fix things.
I could do dotnet build, and
just let the errors guide my way.
So that's exactly what we're gonna do.
So we're gonna skip over to,
we are on querying basics.
So we are gonna close this folder, and
we're gonna open up that next lesson.
We're on querying basics, boom, and we're
gonna see that we have our DbContext.
We have an on model
creating if we need it, but
we don't,
it's actually not doing anything.
It's actually calling the base,
which by the way,
if you dig into that code,
this method doesn't actually do anything.
You don't need to call it the base
method for this, but it's there.
We still have our, let's see,
we still have our IRepository abstraction,
and of course, we've got our IRepository.
So we're gonna do this,
we're gonna go nuclear on this thing.
First thing we're gonna do is hit
the delete key, my favorite key to delete.
Are you sure to wanna
move this to the trash?
Yes, because I don't like
the IRepository interface.
I wanna remind you that I brought it up
earlier on because I still do see it in
the wild.
I still think it's important to know, but
I want you to know that if I
were starting a new project and
I never use the IRepository interface at
its face, I always start with EF Core.
So now that we've gotten that all the way,
we can open up our terminal dotnet build,
and we got a lot of things to fix.
We got, well, nine errors,
that's not so bad.
We'll start by going to Program.cs.
You'll see that this USING
statement no longer is needed.
Actually, these three are not needed,
so we'll go ahead and delete them.
And I can tell they're
not needed by the way,
because they're kind of in a faded font,
so we'll just go ahead and delete those.
This list of employees hasn't been needed
for a while, so we'll go ahead and
delete that.
And then we've got our EmployeeRepository.
Where the heck does that live?
We need to blow that up, too.
All right, employee repository, it
doesn't have anything to inherit from, so
we're just gonna do the delete key,
boom, love it.
And then, of course, our compiler's gonna
complain that these things no longer
exist, so
we're gonna put those down there.
And that's good, so
we're gonna continue to build and
see where the rest of our errors are,
which they should almost exclusively be,
inside of our tests and
inside of our controller.
So let's go ahead and go there, and
we're gonna see that we no longer
need the abstractions namespace.
It no longer exists because
we deleted the folder and
we don't have a repository anymore.
So we're gonna delete that, and
then we are going to delete this, because,
of course, we don't have that,
and we don't need that.
So that's looking pretty good so far.
First thing we need to do is we could
keep deleting, but I'm gonna go ahead and
set us up correctly since we're
already on this line of code.
So I'm gonna say AppDbContext,
just go ahead and
have our dependency injection
system wire it up for me.
So when this controller's instantiated,
the ASP.NET Core is going to see that we
already have an ASP or
an AppDbContext available.
So it's going to construct that for
us, connect it to SQLite, and
give it into our controller.
And out of force of habit and
also stylistically, I'm going to add
the underscore in front of that, and
then we're gonna see a bunch of things.
So we're gonna see that our
repository.GetAll doesn't exist anymore.
So I'm gonna change this to be await
_dbContext.Employees.ToArrayAsync.
I'm gonna go ahead and
just put them all into memory.
I am also going to put this down as task,
boom, boom, we like it.
Okay, and then we're gonna return
employees, but we are going to say
employees.Select and then pass it our,
method EmployeeToGetEmployeeResponse.
So far so good, we're gonna go down
to here, to our single endpoint.
And we're gonna do a similar thing.
So there's a couple of different
things that you can do here.
I'm going to go ahead and kill that.
You heard me when we were talking
yesterday about single methods, or
methods that you can use in
LINQ to get single objects out.
So there's a couple of different
ones that we can talk about.
I'm gonna use
SingleOrDefaultAsync because
that's the one that I use the most.
The reason that I wanna use at
least something that I know
will return null is because I wanna check
this to see if it's null, and if it is,
then I want to return not found.
Otherwise, if you call Single and that
object doesn't exist, you're not gonna get
a not found, you're gonna get a 500
because it's gonna throw an exception.
So we're gonna say SingleOrDefaultAsync.
We're gonna go ahead and out of habit,
async all the way down if we can help it.
So we're gonna convert this
to an async task method,
which is ASP.NET Core will happily use.
We will await this method, and
then we will say our (e => Id == id).
So we're saying we're passing
it a lambda that says,
give me the employee, the single or
non-existent employee where their ID
is equal to the ID I pass in here.
I do wanna hover over and notice that we
are not using the IEnumerable LINQ (Language Integrated Query) method,
we are using the IQueryable one.
Because if both are available right now,
but extension methods will always
target when there's a narrower,
what we call a narrower type.
We know that IQuery that this thing has
an IQueryable extension method, and
IQueryable actually does
inherit from IEnumerable.
So we are going to use this LINQ method,
which is exactly what we want.
And you see here that we are passing
an expression of func in,
but it looks exactly the same
as a regular function.
It's a property of C#,
it is called homoiconicity.
And it basically says that the syntax that
you use to define your data structure for
your functions also can
define your functions.
There are some languages that are purely
homoiconistic, I guess is how you would
say that, but C# isn't purely, but
it is in its side of its functions.
That's why LINQ is so powerful, one of
the things that makes LINQ so powerful,
it's very natural to use for developers.
There's also a FindAsync
method which is common to see.
I don't have a strong opinion about
it other than I just prefer single or
default async.
But this one works just as well,
and in this case,
you're just passing in the key value
of that entity, which is good.
>> Spencer Schneidenbach: Go ahead and
keep it a single or default.
Now we're gonna go ahead and run this.
And it'll say, we can't run this yet.
By the way, this error message,
would you like to continue and
run the last successful build?
I don't know anybody who's
ever hit yes for any reason.
We're gonna hit no, we're gonna say that,
we didn't do these ones.
We're gonna go reach for
our commenting out syntax.
We are going to ignore these.
These do not exist right now.
We are actually going to comment
out all of these things and
we are actually going to comment
out as well our validator.
We're gonna take care of adding
an updating objects in the next
section of this.
So we're just gonna ignore
these things for now.
We're gonna ignore our test for
now as well.
We're gonna hit play,
we're going to see that we do get our API.
We are 5129, so I will do a get,
and yay, we got back employees,
but we're missing something,
we're missing the benefits.
And I know we seeded
this thing with benefits.
We seeded our employee database with
benefits, so where the heck are those?
Let me show you.
So by default,
Entity Framework is going to pull back
only what you tell it to pull back.
I'm gonna go ahead and stop this.
So even though this Employee object
does indeed include the benefits here,
it's not gonna pull them
back automatically.
And the reason is in order to do that,
Entity Framework has to expand out
the query and make it more complex, and
it doesn't wanna do that for
you unless it feels like you need it.
So what we're gonna do instead
is we are gonna go here, and
we're gonna do this method called Include.
And Include pretty much says make sure
that as part of this Employee object,
you bring me back the benefits.
I'm gonna run it again
without this Include, and
I'm gonna show you the SQL
that's run as part of this.
So I'm gonna do this, I'm gonna hit Send,
I'm gonna go back here,
and you're gonna see the exact SQL that
gets executed against our SQLite database.
Let me show it here,
you're gonna see that,
what it looks like right there.
So select pretty much all the columns
from employees as e, pretty standard.
But as soon as you do that includes,
Entity Framework has more work to do,
it has more lifting to do.
So we're gonna rerun it, uncomment
out the Include, rerun this thing,
and we are going to hit it again,
like so, and
you're gonna see now that you're
getting your benefits back.
We're getting the benefits,
got our benefits.
We were missing them and
now they're back again.